
Git benefits in detail

Since the development and release of Git, it has gained huge popularity among the developers and being open source have incorporated many features. Today, a staggering number of projects use Git for version control, both commercial and personal. Let's see why Git has become so popular by discussing its main features

Performance: Git provides the best performance when it comes to version control systems. Committing, branching, merging all are optimized for a better performance than other systems.
Security: Git handles your security with cryptographic method SHA-1. The algorithm manages your versions, files, and directory securely so that your work is not corrupted.
Branching Model: Git has a different branching model than the other VCS. Git branching model lets you have multiple local branches which are independent of each other. Having this also enables you to have friction-less context switching (switch back and forth to new commit, code and back), role-based code (a branch that always goes to production, another to testing etc) and disposable experimentation (try something out, if does not work, delete it without any loss of code).
Staging Area: Git has an intermediate stage called "index" or "staging area" where commits can be formatted and modified before completing the commit.
Distributed: Git is distributed in nature. Distributed means that the repository or the complete code base is mirrored onto the developer's system so that he can work on it only.
Open Source: This is a very important feature of any software present today. Being open source invites the developers from all over the world to contribute to the software and make it more and more powerful through features and additional plugins. This has led the Linux kernel to be a software of about 15 million lines of code.
As for now, we have understood that Git is more powerful and widely used version control systems. After understanding what and why it is better to understand how to use Git.

